discount sites like deal extreme
aliexpress and ebay can be a
great way to get awesome deals on used
or off-brand tech products
and if you're like me and you're kind of
a gigantic cheapskate
the prospect of saving money can be
pretty enticing
but today's video is
a cautionary one a buyer beware tale
of making sure that you think critically
about a great deal
before pulling the trigger because even
spending
one dollar is a waste of money if you
don't get anything
useful in return for example this
usb2 ethernet adapter that is advertised
as being 10 gigabit ready for just over
four dollars a piece is very
eye-catching but as we're going to see
a lot of the time things like this are
just
too good to be true unlike our sponsor
thermaltake and their a500 case which
features a modern
minimalistic design brushed aluminum
panels and dual hinge swing tempered
glass doors
check it out today at the link below
[Music]
so you might understandably find
yourself thinking
wow a 10 gigabit ethernet adapter for
four us dollars well
gee that sounds like a way better deal
than
this 10 gig adapter from akitio that
costs a whopping 200.
i mean why is this thing even so
expensive
well now that they're both here these
products don't
even seem to be in the same universe as
one another
the akitio uses a high speed thunderbolt
3 interface
it's got a large well ventilated
aluminum chassis
it's got a nice premium feel to it
including
a removable cable and
we actually haven't tested this yet but
theoretically
if we plug it into a device like oh say
a laptop
that was a 5 4 gig file
okay so 10 gig
working on a laptop and that's nice it's
bus powered too it doesn't need any
external power adapter
now let's turn our attention to our
deal extreme adapter this one is made of
cheap plastic
with flimsy connectors and a cable that
i think could probably best be described
as
flaccid it's driverless that's pretty
nice
but what in the world could that be
100 megabit per second
let's take that same four gig file and
have a real bad time
this doesn't even make sense why is it
going at 20 megabytes a second
oh my wi-fi is still okay
and you're done bud oh boy yeah that's
what we were expecting
literally slower than wi-fi
so at this point it's fairly clear
that this product has been
misrepresented
by the website that's selling it but the
problem is
that by the time you've got it in your
hands to test it
unless you're gonna pay you know 25
bucks to ship
back a four dollar item it's a bit too
late to find out that your
steal of a deal was just a steal of your
money so how do you differentiate
between a scam like this
and the real thing before you pull the
trigger
you know what i'm going to use this 10
gig adapter
for my web browsing for the rest of this
video because it's
sexy now because there are cases where
you can find
extraordinary value from up-and-coming
manufacturers
or on liquidation deals we're not saying
that you should just
dismiss outright anything that seems to
be a bargain
we're just saying that your spidey sense
should be tingling and you need to make
sure that you're doing
extra research so the first thing that
we're going to check
is whether there is blatantly
conflicting information
on the product page check out for
example this blender that's advertised
as
three horsepower and 2200 watts
for a cool 90. the problem here is that
the most you can consistently pull from
a 120 volt circuit
is about 1500 watts before you risk
tripping a breaker
and the description of the item actually
does correct this misleading title so
then in the case of our adapter here
we can actually see that the title and
the detailed specs below
are at the very least consistent both
claiming to be 10 gigabit per second
but then getting into our next tip if we
look closely at the product
photos we can actually see that this
adapter
is clearly labeled fast ethernet which
yes young kids out there is the actual
official name for 100 megabit ethernet
that is only one percent of the
advertised speed
and this is far from the only example of
blatant mislabeling
on sites like this one it's a very
common practice
used to lure in unsuspecting customers
there are the scam sd cards that we
recently did a video on
fake brand name fashion goods cables
that are supposedly
certified for apple devices and of
course misleading batteries
some of the batteries we found even used
quotation marks
in the title around the capacity and
then show the real capacity
in the description below although i'm
pretty sure that real capacity is
probably a low debunk as well
it's almost like click bait titles
except in this case
you're paying for it and it's definitely
false advertising
back to our ethernet example though
we've already got enough evidence to
turn
us off of this thing but there is still
more for us to learn here
conflicting specifications can be a
surefire way to identify
bs so then we've got that claimed
10 gigabit per second transmission speed
well that's pretty cool
but what's also included here in the
description
is that it's usb 2.0 type c
now most people understandably might see
a usb
type-c connection and go oh well that's
really modern and fast
but as a tech nerd i know right off the
bat
that type c is a physical standard that
can carry
all kinds of different signals and the
usb
2.0 protocol isn't spec for anywhere
near
10 gigabit per second speed actually it
tops out at around
5 of that now if you're not so
technically inclined
you might not know or even have the
desire to know
what the differences are between all the
usb versions
and that's where our next tip comes in
if you don't know what a specific term
means
that doesn't mean it's not important so
google it and this can be applicable to
any marketing terms or buzzwords because
those might not mean
anything at all even if you know less
bondage
on your new phone sounds really enticing
back to this specific title again though
if you search up usb 2.0 the first thing
that's going to come up
is the wikipedia page for usb and it
shows that usb 2.0's
maximum signaling rate is 480 megabits
per second
oops oops the final nail in the coffin
here
is actually the model number which we
can see in the photo
remarketing of existing products is
very common on these types of
marketplaces see
soldier console so with a quick google
search we find that this part number
actually corresponds to a realtek
ethernet controller that's designed to
run at 10 megabit
or 100 megabit speeds now that i think
of it we should probably crack this open
and find out if it's even a proper
real tech controller not yet though
we'll get to that after our last tip
you might have noticed that one thing
that we didn't mention
is user reviews and we'd love to say
that that's a good way to avoid scams
and
negative reviews should be heated for
the most part
it's just that they're not the silver
bullet that you might hope
fake positive reviews have become a huge
problem even on reputable online stores
like amazon
as for these ones well simply put
they've been well pretty misleading from
our experience
this particular item actually doesn't
even have any reviews yet
but deal extreme shows items with no
reviews
as having five filled in stars and that
only
changes if our review is submitted all
right
anyway we've had our fun now i think
it's time for us to crack
this nut open uh jake what was the plan
here uh
cut stuff i guess so this is cool as
expected
we've got only four conductors here
which
tells us that yes of course this is not
going to transmit anything more than usb
2 speeds
you would need nine conductors for usb
three and
twenty five actually yeah how many
frames twenty four yeah for thunderbolt
three so yeah
yeah this is clearly very clearly not
anything other than usb2 yes it is a
real tech controller well at least it's
printed as that
so one question you might ask yourself
is if you've only got four conductors
here why do you need this
24-pin connector on the other end i mean
it just comes down to convenience
usb type-c is reversible it's durable
and of course modern devices are
switching over to using it
it's just that we're clearly only using
a couple of pins for the actual data
interface on it
so everything else is just blank it's
just not connected
to anything by contrast let's open up
our 10 gigabit adapter here and this is
one
whoa beefy
beefy friggin thing although i gotta say
the design of this
chassis is not really that amazing
because there's no
like heat conduction
between the smaller but yeah i bet you
it's very strong
yeah i'm sure it is you could probably
play hockey with it and then come back
and
use it as your adapter
just canadian things so there it is
if you want 10 gigabit connectivity
you've got to have a 10 gigabit ready
chipset
and of course you've got to have an
interface at the other end that is
actually capable of taking that 10 gig
and transmitting it to something and
you've got to have a way to dissipate
all the
heat and whatnot apparently wow this
chip is so
gives off so much heat they've actually
got a thermal pad on the back the ihs
here is almost as wide as this entire
board
what's under there not bad d-round
probably or the thunderbolt chipset
oh you're probably right seems fine
oh man oh god
what the hell kind of thermal pad is
this excellent
where's your pointer thing i don't know
is it in your pocket
i just want to see oh my god
this is physically oh man is that like
an actual like just
bare silicon too that you're just like i
don't think so no no i think it's on the
package
oh god the noises ah stop
just chill just chill it's all good
well i can't read it anyway i have to
replace those thermal panels
yeah do you mind jake i don't think i
have much choice
bad noise yeah oh god i hate it it's
so bad sorry i'm sorry
it's like the tech nerd equivalent of
nails on a chalkboard
scratching a microcontroller with a
knife
and i can't read it the markings are
like what like scratched off with a
knife
no they're just really faint
and not like obvious anyway somehow all
like
scratched all right well
here you go
well thanks for the condom so conclusion
time then we
know that four dollars versus two
hundred dollars
is a huge gap and this is a pretty
obvious example of
seems too good to be true but the point
of making this video
was to go through some of the steps that
you can take for something that
isn't quite as obvious to determine the
fake stuff from the real stuff
and we hope that even if this might not
have been useful for you
maybe you can share this video with
someone that you know who has been
hoodwinked
before massdrop and sennheiser have
teamed up to bring us the pc 37x gaming
headset
it features angled drivers and an open
back design for a nice
natural sound and better stereo imaging
and those drivers actually come from the
same family as the hd598
and 600 series headphones they come with
a noise cancelling microphone and
they're available on massdrop
at the link below for just 119.99 for a
limited time
go check them out so thanks for watching
guys if you disliked this video you can
hit that button but if you liked it
hit like get subscribed and reconsider
checking out where to buy the stuff we
featured at the link in the video
description like to be very clear as
long as you know what you're getting
four bucks is like
four boxes four bucks you need a 100
megabit adapter
uh while you're down there you can check
out our merch store which has cool
shirts like this one
and our community forum it's totally
worth a join